Vic, Darren, Quentin,

Prof. Jutzi from Germany has asked us for support
in adapting their Cadence DF II to design of RSFQ circuits.
Below are my answers to his questions.
Could you please review my letter, and let me know
if I omitted anything or put something wrong.

Thanks a lot,

Kris


Dear Prof. Jutzi,

I am very sorry for the delay in my response.
Below are my answers to your questions.

> Having in mind your recommendations during my visit in Rochester 
> on Sept. 6, 1996 I tried to apply Cadence for superconducting 
> circuits after my co-workers got limited access to one of the
> Sun Sparc workstations inside the university.
> Tentative Cadence simulations with semiconductor devices work, 
> also in connection with Berkeley SPICE. 
> Josephson junction models for SPICE are in operation, for
> Cadence not yet.
> There are still difficulties to define a Cadence symbol for Josephson
> junctions that is understood
> by SPICE.

We do not use Cadence for simulation of digital circuits
at the junction (circuit) level in our group.
Simulation at this level is performed
outside of the Cadence environment using JSPICE.
JSPICE is a version of SPICE extended with a model 
of Josephson junction by Steve Whiteley. 
The version of JSPICE we use cost $1500,
but there exists an older version which is available
in public domain and has almost the same functionality.
If you are interested in acquiring any of these versions
I would be happy to provide you with the address of the
appropriate ftp site or the contact to Steve Whiteley.

Even though we perform circuit level simulations outside of 
the Cadence environment, we still use Cadence Schematic Editor 
to draw the schematic of the circuit.
Creating a symbol of a Josephson junction within this editor is
straightforward. 
When the schematic of the circuit is ready, its netlist is generated
using commands of the schematic editor.
By default, the generated netlist is in the format different from the
format accepted by JSPICE.
We wrote a special Pearl script to translate a netlist 
in this default Cadence notation to the JSPICE netlist.

> Perhaps there is a chance to get your support to adapt Cadence DF II to
> RSFQ-circuits.

The true value of Cadence becomes appearant at other levels
of the design process:

1. Cadence is used to create the layout of the circuit.
   Cadence Layout Editor seems to be the most convenient
   and robust out of all layout editors we are aware off.

2. Cadence is used to check the layout for violations of the 
   design rules in the circuit.
   To make it possible, we wrote a special technology file
   that describes the design rules required by Hypres, Inc.
   fabrication process. 
   We would be happy to provide you with this file.

3. Cadence is used for extracting circuit components and their values
   from the layout and for comparing the 
   extracted circuit schematic with the original circuit 
   schematic (LVS - layout vs. schematic verification).
   This process has required a special technology file to be written.
   This file is technology-dependent (similarly as the DRC technology file).
   We can provide you with its version corresponding to the 
   Hypres, Inc. fabrication process.

4. We use Cadence for simulation of RSFQ circuits at the gate level.
   This is performed using Verilog-XL simulator which is a part
   of the Cadence environment.
   To make this simulation possible, functional models of elementary 
   RSFQ gates (DRO, AND, XOR, adder-accumulator, etc.) were first written 
   in Verilog HDL.
   This models are then associated within Cadence
   with symbols of basic gates (a symbol view and a functional view
   are just different views of the same gate).
   After models of basic gates are ready, simulation of large digital 
   circuits is possible without the need for any further calibration.
   The speed of gate level simulation is approximately
   two orders of magnitude greater than the speed of the junction 
   level simulation. The accuracy of modeling is sufficient
   to verify timing violations in the circuit.

In summary:
We would be happy to help you to adapt Cadence to the design of RSFQ circuits
by providing you with:
1. Pearl scripts for converting regular Cadence netlist to JSPICE notation.
2. Technology files for Design Rule Checking, Component Extraction &
   Layout vs. Schematic Verification.
3. Verilog models of basic RSFQ gates.

How much changes you would need to introduce to technology files (2.)
to make your Cadence environment operational depends mainly on how 
different the process you use is from the Hypres, Inc. fabrication 
process.
   
I hope this information will be helpful in determining your
further calibration steps.

With best regards,

Kris Gaj
